# [Min Stack](https://leetcode.com/problems/min-stack/)
---
Tags: [[Stacks]]
Difficulty: **Medium**
Date completed: 09-10-2023 11:43

---
## Problem
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/qkLl7nAwDPo?si=po0dEf_3W3nuPrC7" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>
Design a stack that supports push, pop, top, and retrieving the minimum element in constant time.

Implement the `MinStack` class:

- `MinStack()` initializes the stack object.
- `void push(int val)` pushes the element `val` onto the stack.
- `void pop()` removes the element on the top of the stack.
- `int top()` gets the top element of the stack.
- `int getMin()` retrieves the minimum element in the stack.

You must implement a solution with `O(1)` time complexity for each function.
### Examples
**Example 1:**
**Input**
["MinStack","push","push","push","getMin","pop","top","getMin"]
[ [],[-2],[0],[-3],[],[],[],[] ]

**Output**
[null,null,null,null,-3,null,0,-2]

**Explanation**
MinStack minStack = new MinStack();
minStack.push(-2);
minStack.push(0);
minStack.push(-3);
minStack.getMin(); // return -3
minStack.pop();
minStack.top();    // return 0
minStack.getMin(); // return -2
### Constraints
- `-231 <= val <= 231 - 1`
- Methods `pop`, `top` and `getMin` operations will always be called on **non-empty** stacks.
- At most `3 * 104` calls will be made to `push`, `pop`, `top`, and `getMin`.
---
## Intuition
- Create 2 stacks: one to use standardly and the other to keep track of the minimum value so far
## Approach
1. Initialise stack and minStack
2. Push appends the value to the stack and appends the minimum between the value and last value of minStack to minStack
3. Pop removes the last elements from both stacks
4. Top retrieves the last value in the stack]
5. getMin retrives the smallest value which is the last element in the minStack
### Complexity
- Time complexity:
- Space complexity:
## Code

```Python
class MinStack:
	def __init__(self):
		self.stack = []
		self.minStack = []

	def push(self, val: int) -> None:
		self.stack.append(val)
		val = min(val,self.minStack[-1] if self.minStack else val)
		self.minStack.append(val)

	def pop(self) -> None:
		self.stack.pop()
		self.minStack.pop()

	def top(self) -> int:
		return self.stack[-1]

	def getMin(self) -> int:
		return self.minStack[-1]
```