# [Car Fleet](https://leetcode.com/problems/car-fleet/)
---
Tags: [[Arrays]], [[Stacks]], [[Sorting Algorithms]]
Difficulty: {{Difficulty}}
Date completed: 10-10-2023 11:21

---
## Problem
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Pr6T-3yB9RM?si=b5Tw1lZcdtzsXwvO" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>
There are `n` cars going to the same destination along a one-lane road. The destination is `target` miles away.

You are given two integer array `position` and `speed`, both of length `n`, where `position[i]` is the position of the `ith` car and `speed[i]` is the speed of the `ith` car (in miles per hour).

A car can never pass another car ahead of it, but it can catch up to it and drive bumper to bumper **at the same speed**. The faster car will **slow down** to match the slower car's speed. The distance between these two cars is ignored (i.e., they are assumed to have the same position).

A **car fleet** is some non-empty set of cars driving at the same position and same speed. Note that a single car is also a car fleet.

If a car catches up to a car fleet right at the destination point, it will still be considered as one car fleet.

Return _the **number of car fleets** that will arrive at the destination_.
### Examples
**Example 1:**
**Input:** target = 12, position = [10,8,0,5,3], speed = [2,4,1,1,3]
**Output:** 3
**Explanation:**
The cars starting at 10 (speed 2) and 8 (speed 4) become a fleet, meeting each other at 12.
The car starting at 0 does not catch up to any other car, so it is a fleet by itself.
The cars starting at 5 (speed 1) and 3 (speed 3) become a fleet, meeting each other at 6. The fleet moves at speed 1 until it reaches target.
Note that no other cars meet these fleets before the destination, so the answer is 3.

**Example 2:**
**Input:** target = 10, position = [3], speed = [3]
**Output:** 1
**Explanation:** There is only one car, hence there is only one fleet.

**Example 3:**
**Input:** target = 100, position = [0,2,4], speed = [4,2,1]
**Output:** 1
**Explanation:**
The cars starting at 0 (speed 4) and 2 (speed 2) become a fleet, meeting each other at 4. The fleet moves at speed 2.
Then, the fleet (speed 2) and the car starting at 4 (speed 1) become one fleet, meeting each other at 6. The fleet moves at speed 1 until it reaches target.
### Constraints
- `n == position.length == speed.length`
- `1 <= n <= 105`
- `0 < target <= 106`
- `0 <= position[i] < target`
- All the values of `position` are **unique**.
- `0 < speed[i] <= 106`
---
## Intuition
- The time left to the end is calculated by the space left from the target over the speed of the car
- If the time is smaller than the car in the next position, this forms a fleet
- Returning the length of the stack will give us the number of groups as we keep the positions and speeds of the slowest car in each fleet
## Approach
1. Initialise the stack and create an array containing each car's position and speed
2. Loop through the cars array in reverse sorted order
3. Each iteration, append the time it takes to reach the end
4. If the length of the stack is greater than or equal to 2 and the last item in the stack is less than the second to last, pop the last value
### Complexity
- Time complexity:
- Space complexity:
## Code

```Python
def carFleet(target,position,speed):
	stack = []
	cars = [[p,s] for p,s in zip(position,speed)]

	for p,s in sorted(cars)[::-1]:
		stack.append((target-p)/s)
		if len(stack) >= 2 and stack[-1] <= stack[-2]:
			stack.pop()
	return len(stack)
```