# [Koko Eating Bananas](https://leetcode.com/problems/koko-eating-bananas/)
---
Tags: [[Arrays]], [[Searching Algorithms#^a8f551|Binary Search]]
Difficulty: **Medium**
Date completed: 12-10-2023 15:59

---
## Problem
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/U2SozAs9RzA?si=9yaRtc1Ae8kQ9CDS" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>
Koko loves to eat bananas. There are `n` piles of bananas, the `ith` pile has `piles[i]` bananas. The guards have gone and will come back in `h` hours.

Koko can decide her bananas-per-hour eating speed of `k`. Each hour, she chooses some pile of bananas and eats `k` bananas from that pile. If the pile has less than `k` bananas, she eats all of them instead and will not eat any more bananas during this hour.

Koko likes to eat slowly but still wants to finish eating all the bananas before the guards return.

Return _the minimum integer_ `k` _such that she can eat all the bananas within_ `h` _hours_.
### Examples
**Example 1:**
**Input:** piles = [3,6,7,11], h = 8
**Output:** 4

**Example 2:**
**Input:** piles = [30,11,23,4,20], h = 5
**Output:** 30

**Example 3:**
**Input:** piles = [30,11,23,4,20], h = 6
**Output:** 23
### Constraints
- `1 <= piles.length <= 104`
- `piles.length <= h <= 109`
- `1 <= piles[i] <= 109`
---
## Intuition
- Use binary search using 0 and the largest pile as pointers. The values will represent the speed
- Loop through the piles and total the rounded up time it takes to eat
- Compare the total time to the hours required
## Approach
1. Initialise the binary search algorithm with the largest pile as the top limit
2. set the result default to the largest pile as this speed would definitely finish the bananas in time
3. During the search, calculate the total time it takes to consume the piles and compare this to the time required
4. If the value is less than or equal to then we know that the values that work are in that lower section. We set the result to be the smallest value we find when this is True.
5. If the values is greater than the target then we know that the speed is too slow and use the upper section
### Complexity
- Time complexity:
- Space complexity:
## Code

```Python
def minEatingSpeed(piles,h):
	i,j = 0,max(piles)
	res = j

	while i <= j:
		mid = (i+j)//2
		hours = 0
		for p in piles:
			hours += math.ceil(p/mid)

		if hours <= h:
			res = min(res,mid)
			j = mid - 1
		else:
			i = mid + 1
	return res
```